In the last video,
we searched to compare data in arrays and lists
but we didn't change the contents.
In this video, we'll talk about editing data
in an array structure or list.
First we'll take a look at the methods provided
by the Arrays utility class.
So we're gonna create a new class in our arrays project.
I'm gonna call us on arrays data manipulation.
(typing)
Alight, so this code I've of pasted here.
So this code goes through most of the Arrays methods
that alter data in an array,
fill, setAll, sort and parallelPrefix.
Some of the methods make use of lambda expressions,
which we'll discuss in a later section,
but show those methods now.
So that you can see that there's a great deal
of functionality supported now with these methods.
Now, I'm not gonna demonstrate parallelSetAll
or parallelSort.
These methods are operationally the same as setAll or sort,
But the parallel versions can be used
for large sets of data,
allowing multiple threads to do the work.
And since there is no corresponding method
to parallelPrefix,
I will show that to here.
This method executes a binary operation.
And you'll see that in the (murmur)
we'll go through shortly.
Adding the elements together in parallel,
storing the collection in memory,
until the results are all computed it in
and then replaces the Array with the new values.
So you can see in terms of the codes that I've pasted here,
we're creating an Array of integers,
them using Arrays dot field first on line 22
to fill the array with a single value.
Line 26 you can also fill up partial range
with Arrays dot fill in the overloaded method call
I'm that time line 28.
May then up line 32 setall (murmur) call it on line 34,
it uses lambda expressions
and we're demonstrating sample here as I mentioned.
This was introduced in Java right,
but we'll be talking more
about lambda expressions later in the course.
You can sort non primitive type arrays in reverse.
I'm doing that as an example on line 39.
And finally, the dot pararellprefix, as I mentioned,
is on line 45.
So let's actually run this code now.
And you can see the output
at the bottom of the screen there.
So you can see
that you can do practically anything
you might want to do with an array,
using the methods on the Arrays class,
with the exception of changing the size of the array itself.
I wanna talk to you about manipulating the array,
using a fixed-size list backed by the specified array.
and that's by calling arrays dot aslist the method.
This technique allows you to use some methods
of the List interface
which don't change the size of the array.
So to do that, we're gonna create another class here.
We'll call this one is List data manipulation.
(typing)
Alright, this code demonstrates the methods
on the list interface that can be applied
to arrays through this mechanism.
So setting up our test array first,
There is on your list reference, some variable to the result
of colouring arrays as this method set on line 22.
Now that we have this list backed by the array,
we can then like I want to use get,
as you can see me using on line 26 as an example there,
which is a get method to get an a specific element
from the array.
And scrolling down down a bit further,
those also using sort line 30 there to sort the array
via the list interface,
using set, to set the value of a specific array element,
using the set method on line 38.
Also using replace all as you can see there
to change all values in the array values interface,
examples on line 47.
And you can see that after each operation,
I'm printing at the values
which will be will have a look at shortly when you run it.
Now keep in mind with the get and the set,
which you can see on lines 26 and 38.
They accept Zero Based index numbers
to access the elements.
Probably something you're aware of clearly,
and you can see that in the case of line 26,
I'm passing zero, same for line 38.
Let's try running this.
And you can see the output there
after the various data manipulation
that we've done in this four.
Alright. So since we're talking about this creation here,
I wanna talk about two other methods,
listed on the data transformation category,
in a title which will pop up here.
There are list dot of and list dot copy of.
The thing to note about both of these methods
is that by return an immutable list,
meaning you cannot change the list.
So let's actually have a look
at using both of those methods.
List dot off and list dot copy of for some example code.
So paste as always at the bottom.
Okay, so there's the code
or just got back up to the top there.
Okay, stay on line 61 is what I posted in there.
So I could see that the list dot of method
can take an array and make it a list.
We're doing that on line 64.
And the list dot copyof method takes a list
and makes another list which we're doing on line 67.
If we run the code.
Unless you can see
that changing the underlying array now has no effect
on the copies in the list just created.
That's effective what we've done here to test this out.
And taking this a step further,
let's actually try making a change to the new lists
that we've created. I'll paste in some more code.
Alright. So I think the try and catch
is going to give away what's gonna happen here,
if we do try and change the list. Let's actually run this.
And sure enough, we get some exceptions.
The code compiles as you saw with the list object
that's returned by both the list dot of
and the list dot coppyof method
is immutable, as I mentioned, or effectively
are immutable copies of the underlying data.
You can't make changes to them.
You get a runtime exception decided here if that happens.
Alright. So that covers the data manipulation methods.
So I'm gonna end the video here.
In the next one,
I wanna walk through the data transformation methods,
that we discussed previously.
So I'll see you in the next video.